## Hometwon

i   from ShanXI DaTong ,and My hometown is a peaceful and beautiful countryside,there are **high mountains ** like 恒山， traditional customs like 高跷 and **delicious** food like 凉粉. **there also remains** a lot of my delighted memory. 

**Now,with development of science and technology ,My hometown had thoroughly/蛇 绕 来/  changed. Something disappeared,for example ,mountains were excessively explored and the rivers were polluted.**

Hometown is a kind of  special memory for everyone. I love my hometown.

And Finally welcome to Shanxi Datong。

## Family 

I was **born** in a teacher`s  family,my parents are teachers who had been  working in a Junior high school,And now they already retried from that school. 

I have two sisters and they already married. 

in family,we love and **respect** **each** other. family`s love is **unselfish**, I am deeply affected, so I will try my best to repay them.

## What courses in computer science have you studied in university?

i have studied Machine Learning、Computer Network、Operating System、Data Structure、**Algorithm** design. 

my **favorite course/kang si/** is machine learning，machine learning  refers to the process of computer learn linear or non-linear model from data by certain methods. and machine learning is a super hot issue. It is essential  for a student  whose major is cs.

## which programming  language are you  best/good at？

JAVA，and i had worked as an intern in a software company.

## please explain the connotation of BIG DATA ?

The term 'big **data**' often **refers to the use of predictive analytics**,user behavior analytics,or certain  methods that extract value from tremendous data. 



大数据的三个特征：

1. "大":不是随机样本，而是全体数据，对全体数据的分析之后得到藏在数据背后的规律。
2. 

## introduce yourself（慢一点儿）

dear professors, it is my **pleasure** to have the opportunity to attend this interview. My name is Wang ruirui, I was born in 2000(Two thousand(shao ren de)).  i  from ShanXi Datong. my hometown is a beautiful and peaceful contryside.

​    I will graduate from  TianJin university of **science** and technology, in this university, **my major is SE** .And i have studied Machine learning 、Computer Network、Operating System、Data Structure、Algorithm degsin.

Most importantly，my favorite course is  Machine learning .  Machine Learning refers to the process of computers learn a linear or non-linear model from data by certain methods.It is  a super hot issue.And i am a beginner of this.

 **during my master time,**My research direction may be  **recommendation system** or NLP.and i hope i can make progress in these complex directions.

Therefore,i desperately wish to be accepted, Considering my ambition and abilities  in computer science,i hope i can match your requirements.

that`s all,Thank you!

## Introduce your university

my university is TianJin university of science and technology.  It is located in tianjin.  

The best major in this university is **food engineering**. There is intensive learning atmosphere like other universities.   

And i really appreciate it,in here,**i find what i want and who i want to be** ,i had learned how to fight for better future and learned how to improve myself. So ,Though it`s a ordinary university,it is super important for me ,for my whole life. i will never forget the experience in this university.

## Talk about your interests， your character and your advantages/strength

​    i am kind and friendly,Always ready to help others,and i am outgoing and easygoing.
​    To be honest, i am a quite people,i don`t play computer games or smart-phone game. When I'm free,i will play basketball or coding.
​    I think my advantage may be i am persistent and clearly know what i want and who i want to be. 

i want economical freedom and spirit freedom.

and i want to be a someone  like 罗永浩.  he is  a **idealist**. And i am too.

**disadvantage**: i am a stubborn people, I  hold  my  values and not easily changed.

### What are your future career plans?

   During my master time,i will **focus** on NLP or recommendation system. if i  can make progress ,i maybe will apply for a PHD. if i don`t, i will try my best to attend Google or alibaba. I like these two companies and their company culture.

## what`s your study plan/learning plan during your master time?

   in the first year, i will focus on machine learning and NLP to learn basic knowledge.

   in the second year,i will study Deep learning  and  models about NLP. 

   in the third year, i will carefully prepare for my graduation dissertation/ di se tai shen/ .

## Why do you apply for Peking University?

​     Firstly,the ranking of Computer Science in Peking University  is A+.And my major is SE.
​     secondly, It is the best university in china. In this university, I think i will quickly  improve myself. 

## what is your impression on beijing?

   Beijing  is a magical city, it is filled by opportunities and elites. In there, the competitive atmosphere is desperately intensive. 

   but Frankly ,living in beijing is not comfortable. The house price and  living cost is relatively high.

## Introduce NLP

Natural Language Processing/p rau  se sing/ refers to the processing、understanding、and application of human languages by computers. It is a branch of artifical Intelligence and an interdisciplinary subject between computer science and linguistics,which is often called computational linguistics.

## The technology which is covered by NLP

statistics /st额 tis tics/ and linguistics. 统计学和语言学



**introduce statistics:**

Statistics is a comprehensive science that **infers** the essence /安 甚 斯/ of the  object by  analyzing, describing data.



## why do you select NLP as your direction?

The reasons are as follows:

firstly, NLP is a fresh  field ,there are so many directions can be selected and explored, for example, machine translation、Machine Reading comprehension  as like.

secondly, **NLP is one of the branches of AI today,**it is a super hot issue. 



**Do you have a project about nlp?**

 sorry, i don`t



## introduce recommendation system 

推荐系统是通过分析用户行为和用户特征来向用户推荐物品的一种个性化算法

Recommendation system is a personalized algorithm to recommend items to users by analyzing their behaviors and features，my graduation dissertation is a movie recommendation system. It is a factor Engineering.

## introduce your graduation dissertation

my graduation dissertation is a movie recommendation system. this project recomend movies to  user by analyzing user`s features and movies features.  In summry,It is a factor Engineering.User features include users id、users gender、users job、user age.

## Introduce machine learning

Machine Learning refers to the process of computers learn a linear or non-linear model from data by certain methods.

## introduce your major---software Engineering?

SE is the study of the Engineering method to **build and maintain** effective,practical and high **quality** software subject.

## introduce your one project

my industrial  project **is based on** Java、Spring framework、HTML as like. My role in this project is to provide data interaction and maintain databases. 

## why do you take part in the postgraduate entrance exam？

I except a bigger platform to perform myself. Peking university is the biggest platform  in China. In this university, i think i can improve myself quickly.



## 介绍几个ml的算法：What machine learning algorithms are you familiar with

   I have studied support vector machines, decision trees, linear regression, logistic regression and other Basic machine Learning algorithms.

SVM:

 **brief to say**,The maximum margin classifier . And our aim is to find a optimum line to split samples into two kind.

Desision Trees:

  **brief to say**, Desision Trees  means that every **i**teration will choose a feature to split samples into two kind. After Iteration, we will get a Binary Tree.

linear Regression:

 **brief to say**,linear Regression means  that  find a **function** to fit features  to  target value.






口头语：

1. sorry , i can`t follow you ,can you pardon?/p a: dn/ :请再说一次

1.  talk about linkedList：

​      The  data Structrue--ListNode  have two attributes, one of the attributes is a int Value ,which is the value of Node, the other attribute is a pointer, which point to the next Node;

2. talk about the difference between cs and se

​     Computer science pays more attention to the study of computer theory, and software engineering pays more attention to the development of industrial projects.

3. introduce Chinese segmentation Technology

   Chinese segmentation Technology  means split a **chinese sentence** into a sequence  of word,for example.

4. **introduce phrase parsing（句法分析）**

   phrase parsing  determine the grammatical structrue of sentence and dependency relationship between the words in the sentence.

5. Do you have learned **Probability theory**?

   yes

6. Bubble Sort  冒泡排序：pre iteration will select the Max value and swap it to his right position.

7. 二叉树：the **data structrue**--TreeNode has three Attributes which are：right child、left child and his value.and right child、left child  are pointer which point to next Node.

8. 平衡二叉树：the absolute value  of difference between the height of right child and the height of left child is smaller than one.

9. **phrase parsing**:语法分析

10. **Stack and Queue**

    the feature of Stack is First in last OUT,wo can delete and insert  element in the same direction.

    the feature of queue is First in First out,wo can delete and insert element in the reverse direction.

